ID:	1234
Name:	Green Spring Gardens 
Curator's Name:	
Director's Name:	Mary E. Olien, Director
Info:	  United States of America - Virginia - Alexandria  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: GSFP; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: No; About the Green Spring Gardens Green Spring Gardens is a "must visit" for everyone in the metropolitan Washington, D.C. area. It’s a year-round gold mine of information and inspiration for the home gardener. It’s an outdoor classroom for children and their families to learn about plants and wildlife. It’s also a museum, a national historic site that offers glimpses into a long, rich history with colonial origins.; ; There’s something here for everyone: a wooded stream valley with ponds, a naturalistic native plant garden, over 20 thematic demonstration gardens, a greenhouse filled with tropicals, and a well-stocked horticultural reference library. Visit the Garden Gate Plant Shop and our two gift shops, where you’ll find gift ideas ranging from books and gardening gloves to china and wind chimes. Green Spring will educate, inspire, and delight you. The gardens are always changing, so come back often for new ideas.; ; Green Spring was donated to Fairfax County in 1970 by editor and publisher Michael Straight. Straight purchased the property in 1942 and made several modifications to the 1784 historic house and accompanying gardens. The landscape around the Straight home was that of a 'gentleman farmer' and was used primarily for entertaining. Designed by Beatrix Farrand, the gardens included boxwood hedging, roses, and perennial borders.; ; Green Spring's grounds are open dawn to dusk every day of the year. The Horticulture Center is open Monday through Saturday, 9 am to 4:30 pm, and Sunday, noon to 4:30 pm. The Horticulture Center is closed Thanksgiving, Christmas, and New Year's holidays.;  Main Address:; Green Spring Gardens; 4603 Green Spring Road; Alexandria; Virginia 22312 United States of America; ;  Telephone: (703) 642-5173; Fax: (703) 642-8095; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.greenspring.org">www.greenspring.org; Primary Email: ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	Brenda Skarphol, Curatorial Horticulturist
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Date founded:	1970
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Latitude:	38.8251770
Longitude:	-77.1578920
Total Area:	11 Hectares
Friends society:	Yes
Open to public:	Yes
Special Collections:	Plants native to Virginia
Reintroduction Programme:	No
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes