ID:	1268
Name:	Mt. Cuba Center 
Administration Staff Number:	
Curator's Name:	Amy Highland, Director of Collections
Director's Name:	Jeffrey A. Downing, Executive Director
Educational Staff Number:	6
Horticultural Staff Number:	
Info:	  United States of America - Delaware - Hockessin  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: MCCSP; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: Yes; About the Mt. Cuba Center Our founders, Mr. and Mrs. Lammot du Pont Copeland, were visionary in their approach to conservation, and in their vision for Mt. Cuba Center. Mrs. Copeland summed up their ambition for Mt. Cuba Center in what has become our founding intention:; ; “I want this to be a place where people will learn to appreciate our native plants and to see how these plants can enrich their lives so that they, in turn, will become conservators of our natural habitats.”; ; Beyond the beauty of Mt. Cuba Center runs a deep river of purpose. We understand the importance of native plants and natural lands, and hope to impart that understanding to everyone who walks through our gates. It is not enough simply to observe beauty now. We must also protect it for future generations.; ; Our mission is to inspire an appreciation for the beauty and value of native plants and a commitment to support the habitats that sustain them.;  Main Address:; Mt. Cuba Center; 3120 Barley Mill Road; Hockessin; Delaware 19707 United States of America; ;  Telephone: (302) 239-4244; Fax: (302) 239-5366; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.mtcubacenter.org">www.mtcubacenter.org; Primary Email: library@mtcubacenter.org ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	Julie Rotramel, Plant Recorder
Research Staff Number:	2
Altitude:	75.00 Metres
Date founded:	1935
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Landscaped Area:	Yes
Latitude:	39.7856150
Local Address:	3120 Barley Mill Rd.
Locality:	Information
Longitude:	-75.6500200
Natural Vegetation Area:	Yes
Total Area:	618 Hectares
Arboretum:	No
Computer Plant Record System:	Yes
Disabled access:	Yes
Friends society:	No
Herbarium:	No
Micropropagation/ Tissue Culture Facilities:	No
Number of Visitors:	9000
Number of Volunteers:	15
Open to public:	Yes
Published Plant Catalogue:	No
Seed Bank:	No
ABS Policy:	No
Accession Number:	7016
Cultivation Taxa Num:	2310
Invasive Species Monitoring:	Yes
Invasive Species Policy:	No
Plant Collection Policy:	Yes
Special Collections:	As a botanical garden, Mt. Cuba Center holds living collections of plants, much like a museum houses collections of art or historical artifacts. Mt. Cuba Center’s collections are focused on plants native to the Eastern Temperate Forests of the United States with a particular emphasis on the Appalachian Piedmont, an area that spans nine states from New York to Alabama.
Conservation Programme:	Yes
Ex Situ Conservation Programme:	Yes
Medicinal Plant Programme:	No
Reintroduction Programme:	No
Agriculture:	No
Biotechnology:	No
Conservation - Biology:	No
Conservation - Genetics:	No
Data Management Systems and Information Technology:	Yes
Ecology:	Yes
Ecosystem Conservation:	Yes
Education:	Yes
Ethnobotany:	No
Exploration:	Yes
Floristics:	No
Horticulture:	Yes
Invasive Species Biology and Control:	Yes
Land Restoration:	Yes
Molecular Genetics:	No
Pharmacology:	No
Plant Breeding:	Yes
Pollination Biology:	No
Restoration Ecology:	No
Seed/Spore Biology:	No
Sustainability:	No
Systematics and Taxonomy:	No
Urban Environments:	No
Courses for General Public:	Yes
Courses for School Children:	No
Courses for University/College Students:	No
Education Booklets/Leaflets:	Yes
Education Programme:	Yes
Education Signs in Garden:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Permanent Public Displays:	Yes
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes
Special Exhibitions:	Yes
Visitor/Education Centre:	No