ID:	1298
Name:	Hof ter Saksen Arboretum 
Administration Staff Number:	
Curator's Name:	Christa Maes
Director's Name:	Christa Maes
Educational Staff Number:	10
Horticultural Staff Number:	5
Info:	  Belgium - Beveren  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: WAAS; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: No; About the Hof ter Saksen Arboretum The park is situated in Waasland approximately 10 km outside Antwerp. It has a typical romantic design with alternating large tree clusters, lawns and water features. The castle ruin (1790), visible from various sites, dominates the landscape. Renovation of the castle started in september 2004. The total area is more than 24 ha of which 13 form the arboretum; the remaining grounds comprise a nature garden, fruit orchard, agricultural field and a little brook. The arboretum was founded by the Decalut family in 1980. Nowadays the arboretum is managed by the commune of Beveren.; ; It now comprises more than 4500 plants including 70 Quercus spp., varieties and cultivars, more than 62 Ilex spp., 88 Viburnum spp., and 54 Cornus spp.. The soil belongs to the Fago-quercetum association which is perfect for oak, beech, chestnut, European aspen, birch, honeysuckle, rowan, hazel-nut, bird-cherry and holly. The focus of the park is on educating the broad public with respect to flora and the natural environment. The most striking trees in the collection are the giant copper beeches.Some of them had to be cut down in january 2006 because of parasits (fungi). Some eye-catching rare species include Betula medwediewii, Betula papyrifera or Betula turkestanica (2 m dwarf form). Also of note are a gigantic Thuja plicata, an old white mulberry, Ailanthus vilmoriniana, a deep purple Magnolia liliflora Nigra, and an old Catalpa bignonioides amongst others.; ; The arboretum is bordered by a small forest dominated by chestnut trees with accompanying undergrowth shrubs, herbaceous plants and ferns. In this part we find an old ice-house that is presently a shelter for bats. Another attraction of the park is its wealth of birds. Guided tours are organised on request on the opening days. A small information folder is available, educational brochures, exhibitions and various other activities are regularly organised.;  Main Address:; Hof ter Saksen Arboretum; Hof ter Saksen, Haasdonkbaan 101, B-9120 Beveren; Beveren; Belgium; ;  Telephone: 32 (0)3 750 18 60 32 (0)3 760 18 66; Fax: ; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.beveren.be">www.beveren.be; Primary Email: Natuurontwikkeling@beveren.be ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	
Research Staff Number:	
Altitude:	12.00 Metres
Annual Rainfall:	994 mm
Date founded:	1979
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Landscaped Area:	Yes
Latitude:	51.1986
Longitude:	4.2388
Natural Vegetation Area:	Yes
Total Area:	25 Hectares
Arboretum:	Yes
Arboretum Size:	13
Computer Plant Record System:	Yes
Friends society:	Yes
Number of Visitors:	15000
Open to public:	Yes
Accession Number:	6555
Cultivation Taxa Num:	4670
Special Collections:	Oaks (60 taxa), Cotoneaster, Berberis
Ex Situ Conservation Programme:	Yes
Conservation - Genetics:	Yes
Ecosystem Conservation:	Yes
Education:	Yes
Courses for General Public:	Yes
Courses for School Children:	Yes
Courses for University/College Students:	Yes
Education Booklets/Leaflets:	Yes
Education Signs in Garden:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes
Special Exhibitions:	Yes
Visitor/Education Centre:	Yes