ID:	168
Name:	Main Botanical Garden, Russian Academy of Sciences 
Curator's Name:	Dr. Yuri Gorbunov, Deputy Director and Dr. Alexander Shvetsov, Deputy Director
Director's Name:	Dr. Vladimir Upelniek, Director
Info:	  Russian Federation - Moscow  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: MHA; International Agenda Registration: Yes; BGCI Member: Yes; About the Main Botanical Garden, Russian Academy of Sciences The Russian Academy of Sciences, N.V. Tsitsin Main Botanical Garden (RAS MBG) - the largest botanical garden in Europe - was founded April 14, 1945, part of the Department of Biological Sciences, Russian Academy of Sciences.; ; Construction and development of the Garden is inextricably linked with the name of an outstanding scientist, Academician Tsitsin Nikolai, who was the director of the foundation for 35 years. Over 63 years of its existence Garden has become a leading institute of Experimental Botany, and a major center of education, demonstrating the richness and diversity of vegetation in different regions of the globe. One of the main results of scientific and practical activities of the Main Botanical Garden is to create the richest country in the collections of plants and greenhouse. The taxonomic composition of these collections indicates the degree of efficacy of various methods of selection of the starting material for introduction into the middle zone of European Russia and the methods of cultivation of plants of different origin.; ; Collections are the primary basis of research in the field of plant introduction, is a unique collection of flora gene pool. Important role they play in conducting basic research in taxonomy, evolution, biochemistry and physiology of plant adaptation to biotic and abiotic environmental factors. In addition, the collections have great practical significance. They serve as the starting material of uterine plants of the various groups of utility, past introductory test.; ; For information about research quality and quantity of collection funds MBG scientists published a series of reference materials for individual cultures (lilacs, roses, bulbs, etc.), the collections and expositions departments Garden (Flora of Dendrology, tropical and subtropical plants, ornamental plants, cultivated plants), a considerable number of informational articles in periodicals. Methodological and practical significance of these works do not cause any doubts, but when you use them for reference faced with a number of complicating circumstances. The main one - it's time difference the publication summarizing reports and publications reflecting the state of the collection of funds in different years. Since the advent of many of them passed a long time (20 or more years), during which the collections have been significant changes for various reasons (to attract new species to supplement the collections of the attack on the inadequacy of environmental conditions, natural habitats and the introduction of the item, refinement keys plants, culling of plants in the biological and economic characteristics, etc.) In this regard, prepared and published a "Catalogue of plants of the Main Botanical Garden named after NV Tsitsin Russian Academy of Sciences (Moscow, 2001).; ; The main task of MBG is to preserve the gene pool of plants and development of theoretical principles and methods of introduction and acclimatization of plants for the management of the world's plant resources.;  Main Address:; Main Botanical Garden, Russian Academy of Sciences; 4 Botanicheskaya st.; Russian Federation; Moscow; 127276 Russian Federation; ;  Telephone: (499) 9779044, 9779145; Fax: (499) 9779172; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.gbsad.ru">www.gbsad.ru; Primary Email: info@gbsad.ru ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	Dr. Mikhail Romanov, Head of Tropical and Subtropical Dept.
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Date founded:	1945
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Landscaped Area:	Yes
Latitude:	55.7557
Local Address:	
Locality:	Information
Longitude:	37.6176
Natural Vegetation Area:	Yes
Total Area:	340 Hectares
Arboretum:	Yes
Arboretum Size:	75
Computer Plant Record System:	Yes
Friends society:	Yes
Herbarium:	Yes
Micropropagation/ Tissue Culture Facilities:	Yes
Open to public:	Yes
Published Plant Catalogue:	Yes
Seed Bank:	Yes
Plant Collection Policy:	Yes
Conservation Programme:	Yes
Ex Situ Conservation Programme:	Yes
Medicinal Plant Programme:	Yes
Biotechnology:	Yes
Data Management Systems and Information Technology:	Yes
Ecology:	Yes
Education:	Yes
Ethnobotany:	Yes
Floristics:	Yes
Seed/Spore Biology:	Yes
Urban Environments:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Visitor/Education Centre:	Yes