ID:	231
Name:	Singapore Botanic Gardens 
Curator's Name:	Dr. Nura Abdul Karim
Director's Name:	Dr Tan Puay Yok, Director
Info:	  Singapore - Singapore - Singapore City  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: SING; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: Yes; About the Singapore Botanic Gardens The Singapore Botanic Gardens is a living monument to the the founding fathers of Singapore. The Gardens at its present site was founded in 1859 by an Agri-Horticultural Society. In 1874, the Society handed over management and maintenance of the site to the then British government. The scientific mission of the Gardens evolved when the colonial government assumed management and deployed Kew-trained botanists and horticulturists to administer the Gardens.; ; By the mid 1960s, the Gardens was taking a leading role in the greening of Singapore. To meet the need for urban landscapes and recreational areas, the Gardens' staff became involved in supplying planting material and in plant introduction to increase the variety and colour in road side and park plantings. In 1973, the Botanic Gardens merged with the Parks and Trees branch of the Public Works Department, which became the Parks and Recreation Department. ; ; In June 1990, Singapore Botanic Gardens came under the management of the newly formed National Parks Board. The Gardens embarked upon a comprehensive improvement programme to bring it to the forefront of botanical and horticultural activity by the 21st century. In July 1996, the Ministry of National Development merged the National Parks Board and the Parks and Recreation Department into a single authority to look after the greening and beautification of Singapore. The name of the authority, a statutory board remains as National Parks Board.; ; The Singapore Botanic Gardens submitted its bid to become the country's first UNESCO World Heritage Site in Jan 2014. In July 2015, the Garden was inscribed as the first and only tropical botanic garden on UNESCO’s World Heritage List.; ; Recent attractions that were launched in the Gardens in 2010-2017 are the Learning Forest, Heritage Garden, Healing Garden, Trellis Garden, Fragrant Garden and Foliage Garden. The Healing Garden was launched in November 2010 along with the first free Smartphone Healing Garden Application. The 10 ha Learning forest was officially open on 31 March 2017, showcases the tropical lowland rainforest and the fresh water swamp habitats. The Gardens also has a Ethnobotany Gallery that is open daily. On 13 July, the SBG Seed Bank was opened and has the ability to store approximately the seeds of 25,000 species. This Seed Bank has an interpretative gallery that is open to public.; ; Singapore Botanic Gardens played host to the successful inaugural International Certificate in Botanic Garden Management in the Asia Pacific Region in March 2010. The Gardens had also hosted the 8th International Flora Malesiana Symposium in August 2010 which saw the highest participation from international taxonomists and botanists.; ; New developments that will open in 2020 in the Gardens are an Interpretative Centre and Botanical Gallery at Gallop Core, and a redeveloped National Orchid Garden.;  Main Address:; Singapore Botanic Gardens; National Parks Board; 1 Cluny Road; Singapore City; Singapore 259569 Singapore; ;  Telephone: (65) 6471-7138; Fax: (65) 6473-7983; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.sbg.org.sg">www.sbg.org.sg; Primary Email: NPARKS_SBG_Visitor_Services@NPARKS.GOV.SG ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	Edmund Chia
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Annual Rainfall:	2362 mm
Date founded:	1859
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Latitude:	1.3144
Local Address:	1 Cluny Road
Locality:	Information
Longitude:	103.8211
Total Area:	82 Hectares
Arboretum:	No
Computer Plant Record System:	Yes
Disabled access:	Yes
Herbarium:	Yes
Micropropagation/ Tissue Culture Facilities:	Yes
Number of Visitors:	5000000
Number of Volunteers:	100
Open to public:	Yes
Published Plant Catalogue:	No
Seed Bank:	Yes
Accession Number:	46000
Cultivation Taxa Num:	8700
Invasive Species Monitoring:	No
Invasive Species Policy:	No
Plant Collection Policy:	Yes
Conservation Programme:	Yes
Ex Situ Conservation Programme:	Yes
Reintroduction Programme:	Yes
Data Management Systems and Information Technology:	Yes
Education:	Yes
Horticulture:	Yes
Molecular Genetics:	Yes
Plant Breeding:	Yes
Systematics and Taxonomy:	Yes
Courses for General Public:	Yes
Courses for School Children:	Yes
Education Booklets/Leaflets:	Yes
Education Programme:	Yes
Education Signs in Garden:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Permanent Public Displays:	Yes
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes
Special Exhibitions:	Yes
Visitor/Education Centre:	Yes