ID:	2386
Name:	Nong Nooch Tropical Botanical Garden 
Curator's Name:	Anders Lindstom
Director's Name:	Dr. Kampon Tansacha
Info:	  Thailand - Chonburi province - Pattaya  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: NONGN; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: No; About the Nong Nooch Tropical Botanical Garden In 1954 Mr. Pisit and Mrs. Nongnooch Tansacha bought 1500 rais of rolling hills and valleys at kilometer marker 163 on Sukhumvit road in Chonburi province. The newly purchased land was anticipated to become a fruit plantation filled with mangoes, oranges, coconuts as well as many other local fruits. But as fate may have it, Mrs. Nongnooch during her trip abroad, was inspired by the beauty of the world-renowned gardens and decided to turn the fruit orchard into a tropical garden of ornamental flowers and plants. At first meant for botanical conservation, the garden was later turned into a tourist attraction fully equipped with Thai style houses, cottages, villas, seminar halls, banquet halls, swimming pool, restaurants as well as other facilities constructed for tourist's convenience.; ; Opened to the public in 1980 , the garden was named “ Suan Nong Nooch ” in honor of Mrs. Nongnooch, as the word “Suan” means garden. In addition to continuing on her life's work of the garden, Mrs. Noongnooch spends her time between Bangkok and the orchard in Chieng-rai as well as Nong Nooch camping resort in Prachinburi province, which made its debut in 2001. In order to maintain the gardens, management was than handed over to her son, Mr. Kampon Tansacha.; ; ; Presently, Nong Nooch Tropical Garden & Resort is well known to those who want to take in an impressive Thai Cultural Show and find the biggest and most beautiful botanical garden in Southeast Asia. More than 2,000 visitors from around the world visit our garden daily for their enjoyment. At Nong Nooch Tropical Garden, we're always developing and improving the beautification process in order for the garden to look as it does today. Nong Nooch garden is also dedicated to education, preservation, research as well as the conservation of its vast palm collection and other tropical plants.;  Main Address:; Nong Nooch Tropical Botanical Garden; 34/1 Sukhumvit Highway; Pattaya; Chonburi province 20250 Thailand; ;  Telephone: 66-38-709358; Fax: 66-38-238160; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.nongnoochtropicalgarden.com">www.nongnoochtropicalgarden.com; Primary Email: info@nongnoochtropicalgarden.com ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	Somchai Seijarean
Altitude:	5.00 Metres
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Landscaped Area:	Yes
Latitude:	13.3621
Longitude:	100.9837
Natural Vegetation Area:	Yes
Total Area:	240 Hectares
Arboretum:	Yes
Arboretum Size:	8
Computer Plant Record System:	Yes
Disabled access:	Yes
Open to public:	Yes
Seed Bank:	Yes
Accession Number:	15818
Special Collections:	Cycadaceae
Ex Situ Conservation Programme:	Yes
Reintroduction Programme:	Yes
Conservation - Biology:	Yes
Conservation - Genetics:	Yes
Data Management Systems and Information Technology:	Yes
Ecology:	Yes
Ecosystem Conservation:	Yes
Exploration:	Yes
Floristics:	Yes
Horticulture:	Yes
Pollination Biology:	Yes
Seed/Spore Biology:	Yes
Systematics and Taxonomy:	Yes
Urban Environments:	Yes
Courses for School Children:	Yes
Courses for University/College Students:	Yes
Education Signs in Garden:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Permanent Public Displays:	Yes
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes