ID:	241
Name:	Taipei Botanical Garden 
Administration Staff Number:	7
Curator's Name:	Dr. Su-Wei Fan
Director's Name:	Mr. Bin Chang
Educational Staff Number:	4
Horticultural Staff Number:	15
Info:	  Taiwan, China - Taipei City  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: TAIF; International Agenda Registration: Yes; BGCI Member: Yes; About the Taipei Botanical Garden The Taipei Botanic Garden was first built as a nursery (Taipei Nursery) in 1896 during the Japanese colonial period. It was later expanded and renamed Taipei Botanical Garden in 1921 and became the first botanical garden in Taiwan. The garden was reassigned to be under the management of Taiwan Forestry Research Institute after the WWII.; ; The Garden occupies 8.2 hectares which contains the gardens of Gymnosperms, Ferns, Taxonomic Garden, Ethno-plants, Aquatic plants, Lotus pond, Taiwan Indigenous Plant Display Area and other theme exhibition sites with a collection of more than 2,000 plant species. It has become one of the most important institute for the research and educational resource for plants in Taiwan.; ; Taipei Botanical Garden also happens to be an unearthed cultural relic of the old Taipei Lake. Around 4,500 years ago, the lake became habitable land, and human activities started to take place in the area. The abundant cultural remnants left behind makes the botanical garden an important archeological site in Taiwan.; In addition, there are two historic monuments in the garden - the Herbarium and Museum of Imperial Envoy Lodging (formerly known as the Guest House of Imperial Envoys). The Herbarium was built in 1924 and was the first herbarium in Taiwan. The worldwide plant specimens collection dated back from the last century along with abundant living plants makes the garden a precious place in Taiwan. The Guest House of Imperial Envoys was built in 1888 at the location of the Taipei Zhongshan Hall. It was relocated to the current site in 1933.;  Main Address:; Taipei Botanical Garden; Botanical Garden Division, Taiwan Forestry Research Institute; 53, Nanhai Road; Taipei City; 10066 Taiwan, China; ;  Telephone: 886 2 23039978 ext. 2701; Fax: 886 2 23076220; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://tpbg.tfri.gov.tw/en/Introduction.php">http://tpbg.tfri.gov.tw/en/Introduction.php; Primary Email: tfribio@tfri.gov.tw ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	Ms. Shu-Hui Wu
Research Staff Number:	18
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Annual Rainfall:	2800 mm
Date founded:	1896
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Latitude:	25.0618
Local Address:	南海路53號
Locality:	Information
Longitude:	121.5475
Natural Vegetation Area:	No
Total Area:	8 Hectares
Disabled access:	Yes
Herbarium:	Yes
Micropropagation/ Tissue Culture Facilities:	Yes
Number of Visitors:	1500000
Number of Volunteers:	190
Open to public:	Yes
Published Plant Catalogue:	Yes
Seed Bank:	Yes
Accession Number:	5000
Cultivation Taxa Num:	1221
Special Collections:	Economic trees and tropical to subtropical plants.
Conservation Programme:	Yes
Ex Situ Conservation Programme:	Yes
Medicinal Plant Programme:	No
Reintroduction Programme:	Yes
Conservation - Biology:	Yes
Conservation - Genetics:	Yes
Data Management Systems and Information Technology:	Yes
Ecology:	Yes
Education:	Yes
Ethnobotany:	Yes
Floristics:	Yes
Horticulture:	Yes
Molecular Genetics:	Yes
Pollination Biology:	Yes
Seed/Spore Biology:	Yes
Systematics and Taxonomy:	Yes
Education Booklets/Leaflets:	Yes
Education Programme:	Yes
Education Signs in Garden:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Permanent Public Displays:	Yes
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes
Special Exhibitions:	Yes
Visitor/Education Centre:	No