ID:	2520
Name:	Die Gärten von Schloss Trauttmansdorff / I Giardini di Castel Trauttmansdorff / The Gardens of Traut 
A third project is devoted to the ex-situ conservation of a carnivorous aquatic plant, which is rarely found locally:	the Utricularia stygia. Trauttmansdorff cultivates the plants from a population that existed in Lake Caldaro up until 2010, with the aim of reintroducing them into their native waters.
Fax:	+00 39 (0) 473 255601
Flowering Clay Wall:	Plant species for sites at risk for erosion
Info:	  Italy - Meran / Merano  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: TRAU; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: Yes; 
Primary Email:	info@trauttmansdorff.it
Telephone:	+00 39 (0) 473 255600
Trauttmansdorff is divided into four garden worlds:	Forests of the world, the Sun Gardens, the Landscapes of South Tyrol (Northern Italy) and the Water and Terraced Gardens. While the latter features historical European garden architecture, the central theme for the three other garden worlds is a comparison of natural and cultural landscapes. The plants in this garden landscapes are grouped by their geographic origin and form a multitude of vegetation and landscape typologies.
Urticularia stygia:	Ex-situ cultivation
Administration Staff Number:	10
Curator's Name:	Dr. Karin Kompatscher
Director's Name:	Dr. Josef Schmiedhofer
Educational Staff Number:	18
Horticultural Staff Number:	30
Plant Records Officer's Name:	Dipl. Ing. Gabriele Pircher
Research Staff Number:	
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Date founded:	2001
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Landscaped Area:	Yes
Latitude:	46.6552
Longitude:	11.1880
Natural Vegetation Area:	Yes
Total Area:	12 Hectares
Computer Plant Record System:	Yes
Disabled access:	Yes
Friends society:	No
Herbarium:	No
Micropropagation/ Tissue Culture Facilities:	No
Number of Visitors:	415
Open to public:	Yes
Published Plant Catalogue:	No
Seed Bank:	No
Invasive Species Monitoring:	Yes
Special Collections:	1.
Conservation Programme:	Yes
Ex Situ Conservation Programme:	No
Medicinal Plant Programme:	No
Reintroduction Programme:	No
Ecology:	Yes
Horticulture:	Yes
Pollination Biology:	Yes
Courses for General Public:	Yes
Courses for School Children:	Yes
Courses for University/College Students:	Yes
Education Booklets/Leaflets:	Yes
Education Programme:	Yes
Education Signs in Garden:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Permanent Public Displays:	Yes
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes
Special Exhibitions:	Yes
Visitor/Education Centre:	Yes