ID:	3122
Name:	Orto Botanico dell`Univerita della Tuscia 
Curator's Name:	
Director's Name:	
Info:	  Italy - Viterbo  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: TUSC; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: No; About the Orto Botanico dell`Univerita della Tuscia The Botanic Garden ‘Angelo Rambelli’, opened on March 24th 1991, covers an area of approximately 6 ha west of Viterbo, about 300 m above sea level, on the right side of the ditch Urcionio, near the famous hydrothermal vents of Bullicame, well known since the Roman, and probably even the Etruscan era. The area is characterized by strong annual temperature fluctuations (min 10 °C, max 40 °C) and a strongly calcareous soil. At depths ranging from 4 to 8 meters, flow numerous hot flaps rich in minerals, especially carbonates, that were deposited over thousands of years to form whitish concretions. From the main spring of Bullicame the water flowed, through characteristic raised small channels, in basins where once hemp was placed to macerate. Small channels and basins are now converted into streams and ponds that run through the entire structure and host aquatic ecosystems, sometimes enriched by a spontaneous herbaceous vegetation. ; The idea of creating a botanical gardens in Viterbo was of the first Rector of the University of Tuscia, Prof. Gian Tommaso Scarascia Mugnozza. Although this area was, for the physico-chemical characteristics of the soil, the most unsuitable plants, the challenge was accepted by Prof. Angelo Rambelli, founder and first director of the Botanical Gardens; thanks to his efforts and tenacity and to the work of many employees and following directors, the Botanical Garden of Viterbo is now a beautiful reality, a source of cultural richness for the entire scientific community and for the city of Viterbo.; The collections of the Botanical Garden amount, considering plants placed in the ground and potted plants, to about 20,000 specimens, mostly cataloged and geo-referenced, belonging to some 2,500 species. The area is divided into parcels hosting plants arranged according to taxonomic or phytogeographic criteria, or environmental reconstructions, consistent with the climatic and soil conditions of the area. Rosa bracteata Sieber ex C.Presl was the first species planted, on 16th February 1991, a few days before the official opening; today it marks the northern border, along the road Bulicame. The first environment reconstructed was the Mediterranean, in an area located on a slight slope hosting the environment of coastal dunes at the base; this is the most recent reconstruction, realized within a research project conducted in collaboration with the Germplasm Bank of Tuscia (BGT) and aimed to the ex situ conservation of threatened wild species.;  Main Address:; Orto Botanico dell`Univerita della Tuscia; Via San Camillo de Lellis, 01100 Viterbo, Italy; Viterbo; Italy; ;  Telephone: ; Fax: ; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://">; Primary Email: ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Date founded:	1985
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Latitude:	42.4421
Longitude:	12.0651
Special Collections:	arboretum, succulents, subtropical plants from Australia, African plants, palms, bamboos, rose garden, Fabaceae, Rosaceae, Cactaceae, Conifers, Trachycarpus fortunei, Pinus