0-ID: 3414
1-Name: Trans-Baikal Botanical Garden / ????????????? ???????????? ??? 
2-Altitude: 0.00 Metres
2-Date founded: 1990
2-Info:              Institution Code: CHITA;             International Agenda Registration: Yes;        BGCI Member: No;                                                  About the Trans-Baikal Botanical Garden / ????????????? ???????????? ???        In the capital of the Trans-Baikal region, a botanical garden (despite all the hardships of its formation) still exists! It is organized by Konstantin Bix in 1990. And if, for fifteen years he was little available research institution, then the last five years, Garden surprises and delights its green zabaykaltsev exhibits and visitors to the region.;  ;     The territory of the garden is located in the city and is 26.8 hectares (Central Manor - 2,8 ha and nursery in the village. Pishanka - 24 ha). Like most of the botanical gardens in the world, Transbaikalia botanical garden contributes to the conservation of global biodiversity. The main activities of the institution aims at conducting research and applied research in the field of botany, introduction and acclimatization of plants in Eastern Transbaikalia, and promoting the ecological and botanical knowledge.;  ;    Researcher, Laboratory of regional botanical research Zabaikalsky Botanical Garden during the second ten years of work on the following areas: floral and tsenopopulyatsionnye study of rare, protected, medicinal and ornamental plants, the Trans-Baikal region and their subsequent introduction, development of scientific bases of plants exhibiting natural flora in Transbaikalia. During the annual field research botanical resources Trans-Baikal Territory and gather rare, useful, decorative and simply typical plants for collections of garden.;  ;    In addition, the collection of garden is replenished by exchange seeds with other botanic gardens. Transbaikalia Botanical Garden is cooperating with more than 60 botanical gardens in Russia and abroad. When one of the main missions of Botanic Gardens - Conservation of the gene pool of flora, employees Zabaikalsky Botanical Garden collections of living plants, numbering about 1800 taxa, including the collection of herbaceous plants native flora and exotic species of 205 taxa Dendrological Collection - 340 taxa, a collection of tropical and subtropical plants - more than 1200 taxa.;  ;    Employees of the Trans-Baikal Botanical Garden is working to create tour exhibits, designing and conducting tours for the purpose of environmental education programs. The first guided tour exhibition "Tropical and subtropical plants" has been opened to visitors in May 2005. For this exhibition, and tours are designed on themes: "Traveling across continents," Myths and Legends of houseplants, "Useful plants of the tropics and subtropics," Medicinal Plants in the tropics and subtropics. In July 2007, guided tour exhibition opened in greenhouses - "Winter Gardens", illustrating the different styles of garden design, its visitors can visit the Japanese, Russian, gardens, and in kindergarten fairy tales. In September 2009, work began on laying the exhibition "From Black to White", which will be located in one of the greenhouses, and is represented by plants of the temperate zone, requiring a winter shelter in the Trans-Baikal region.;                        Main Address:;         Trans-Baikal Botanical Garden / ????????????? ???????????? ???;         State scientific and educational institution, Russian Academy of Sciences;        24 General Belik Street, P.O. Box 821;        Chita;        672051 Russian Federation;        ;                 Telephone: ;         Fax: ;         URL: http://zabsad.ru/;         Primary Email: garden_chita@mail.ru       ;              
2-Institution Type: Botanic Garden
2-Latitude: 52.0454
2-Longitude: 113.4986
2-Total Area: 27 Hectares
3-<a href="http: //www.bgci.org/garden_editor.php?comID=3414">Please click here if you can update us</a>
4-Special Collections: Native plants of the Lake Baikal region. Trees and shrubs, ornamental plants, plants used for local handicrafts.
5-<a href="http: //www.bgci.org/garden_editor.php?comID=3414">Please click here if you can update us</a>
6-<a href="http: //www.bgci.org/garden_editor.php?comID=3414">Please click here if you can update us</a>
7-<a href="http: //www.bgci.org/garden_editor.php?comID=3414">Please click here if you can update us</a>
9-BGCI Member: No
9-Employees of the Trans-Baikal Botanical Garden is working to create tour exhibits, designing and conducting tours for the purpose of environmental education programs. The first guided tour exhibition "Tropical and subtropical plants" has been opened to visitors in May 2005. For this exhibition, and tours are designed on themes: "Traveling across continents," Myths and Legends of houseplants, "Useful plants of the tropics and subtropics," Medicinal Plants in the tropics and subtropics. In July 2007, guided tour exhibition opened in greenhouses - "Winter Gardens", illustrating the different styles of garden design, its visitors can visit the Japanese, Russian, gardens, and in kindergarten fairy tales. In September 2009, work began on laying the exhibition "From Black to White", which will be located in one of the greenhouses, and is represented by plants of the temperate zone, requiring a winter shelter in the Trans-Baikal region.
9-Fax: 
9-Institution Code: CHITA
9-International Agenda Registration: Yes
9-Primary Email: garden_chita@mail.ru
9-Researcher, Laboratory of regional botanical research Zabaikalsky Botanical Garden during the second ten years of work on the following areas: floral and tsenopopulyatsionnye study of rare, protected, medicinal and ornamental plants, the Trans-Baikal region and their subsequent introduction, development of scientific bases of plants exhibiting natural flora in Transbaikalia. During the annual field research botanical resources Trans-Baikal Territory and gather rare, useful, decorative and simply typical plants for collections of garden.
9-Telephone: 