ID:	3492
Name:	Coastal Maine Botanical Gardens 
Administration Staff Number:	
Curator's Name:	Sharmon Provan, Horticulture and Plant Records Manager
Director's Name:	-
Educational Staff Number:	5
Horticultural Staff Number:	6
Info:	  United States of America - Maine - Boothbay  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: ; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: No; About the Coastal Maine Botanical Gardens Botanical gardens come into being in a variety of ways, and they offer vastly different amenities; but no matter where they are or how long they’ve been in existence, they have more than plants in common. Their true roots are in the geology and natural and human history of their sites, topography, and geographical location. Their past, present, and future are the work of highly committed individuals. ; ; On Coastal Maine Botanical Gardens’ 248 acres, the natural elements are more evident than in smaller, more-manicured properties or urban settings. Our size enables our designers, including acclaimed landscape architects Herb Schaal, FASLA, principal of EDAW in Colorado, and Bruce John Riddell, ASLA, of Bar Harbor and Boothbay, Maine, to create gardens and landscapes on a scale seldom found in botanical gardens. ; ; You’ll see glorious formal gardens here, and an overall design that’s both appealing and impressive; but you’ll also find antique stone walls; nearly a mile of sparkling waterfront; massive ledges covered in mosses, lichens, and ferns; and native forest – in fact, the essence of Maine. ; ; The combination is unbeatable, as we’ve heard over and over again from our visitors. Their enthusiasm will become yours as you discover the Gardens for yourself. You can see the highlights in a few hours; or you can explore forever, experiencing the grounds in different seasons and varying weather conditions. And, of course, you can watch our gardens grow and bloom and transform themselves into something altogether different within a familiar framework. After all, if there’s one thing that’s certain about gardens, it’s that they are forever changing.;  Main Address:; Coastal Maine Botanical Gardens; P.O. Box 234; Boothbay; Maine 04537 United States of America; ;  Telephone: (207) 633-4333; Fax: (207) 633-2366; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.mainegardens.org">www.mainegardens.org; Primary Email: info@mainegardens.org ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	Sharmon Provan, Horticulture and Plant Records Manager
Research Staff Number:	
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Date founded:	1991
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Latitude:	43.8758710
Longitude:	-69.6592430
Total Area:	100 Hectares
Arboretum:	No
Disabled access:	Yes
Friends society:	Yes
Herbarium:	No
Number of Visitors:	90000
Number of Volunteers:	600
Open to public:	Yes
Accession Number:	9679
Cultivation Taxa Num:	2571
Special Collections:	Rhododendron, kousa dogwood, rose, native plant, fern, Polygonatum
Courses for General Public:	Yes
Courses for School Children:	Yes
Education Booklets/Leaflets:	Yes
Education Programme:	Yes
Education Signs in Garden:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Permanent Public Displays:	Yes
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes
Special Exhibitions:	Yes
Visitor/Education Centre:	Yes