ID:	3562
Name:	Jardín Botánico de Acapulco 
Administration Staff Number:	1
Curator's Name:	Kay Mendieta de Alonso
Director's Name:	Esther Pliego de Salinas
Educational Staff Number:	
Horticultural Staff Number:	3
Info:	  Mexico - Guerrero - Acapulco  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: ACAPU; International Agenda Registration: Yes; BGCI Member: Yes; About the Jardín Botánico de Acapulco The Acapulco Botanical Garden is open every day from dawn until dusk. Entrance fee: $5US dollars; It is located in Acapulco, in the state of Guerrero, on the Pacific Coast of Mexico. The coordinates being 16° 41’ 15" at 16° 41’ 40" north latitude and 99° 36’ 40" at 99° 37’ 30’’ west longitude.; ; CHARACTERISTICS; It is located in the South Sierra Madre Mountains, which surround Acapulco. The altitude varies between 660 and 1300 feet (200 and 400 meters) above sea level. The impressive huge boulders are made out of granite. ; The land has two creeks, one with year round water and the other only surfaces during the rain season.; The climate is tropical and semi-humid. Summer is the rainy season and winter is dry with an average annual temperature of 83° F (27.8°C). Humidity varies between 50 and 100%. The annual precipitation is 55 ½" (1,411.1 millimeters). September rains are more intense with 15 ¼" (386.7 millimeter) and March through May are the driest months with almost no rain (0.9 millimeters). ; ; HISTORY; This is a tropical botanical garden. Besides the native plants you will find collections of palms and cycads, desert plants, hardwoods as well as flowering and fruit trees, shrubs, heliconias and gingers, bromeliads, aeroids, ferns and vines among others.; It is important to mention that there is a great variety of hardwood trees such as the Palo Morado Peltogyne mexicana which is in danger of extinction.; Leaves, fruits, seeds and roots of existing plants provide the appropriate habitat for the native animal species.; The majority of the native fauna is composed of different types of species such as birds among which we can find parrot, Pandion hatiaetus (Fisher Eagle), Penelope purpurascens (Cojolite, a species of pheasant), Penelopina nigra (Chachalaca negra o Pajuil). Reptiles such as iguanas, lizards and snakes: Ctenosaura pectinata (Tropical lizard), Iguana (Green Iguana); and a few mammals: Pseudocheirus peregrinnis (Ringtail Possum); and Procyon lotor (raccoon). ; ; MISSION ; THE ACAPULCO BOTANICAL GARDEN was created for the scientific study of plants, to grow and propagate plant species in danger of extinction, to educate the public to appreciate and preserve nature and to be a different cultural entertainment.; ; OBJECTIVES; • Is a non profit organization; • A beautiful and pleasant tropical Botanical Garden, with an interesting and varied collection of native and introduced plants enriching the native flora. ; • Offers local and foreign visitors a different cultural entertainment in a delightful place, with agreeable climate and a peaceful environment.; • Educates by offering information for people to learn to appreciate and preserve nature’s flora and fauna. ; • Preserves endangered plants & promotes their preservation.;  Main Address:; Jardín Botánico de Acapulco; Av. Heroico Colegio Militar s/n; Fmacc. Cumbres de Llano Largo; Acapulco; Guerrero C.P. 39820 Mexico; ;  Telephone: 01 744-435-0438; Fax: 52 55 5568 8524; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.acapulcobotanico.org">www.acapulcobotanico.org; Primary Email: centrobotanico@acapulcobotanico.org ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	
Research Staff Number:	
Altitude:	300.00 Metres
Annual Rainfall:	1411 mm
Date founded:	2001
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Landscaped Area:	Yes
Latitude:	16.6833
Local Address:	c/o Universidad Loyola del Pacifico, A.C. Avenida Heroico Colegio Militar s/n Fraccionamiento Cumbres de LLano Largo
Locality:	Information
Longitude:	-99.0000
Natural Vegetation Area:	Yes
Total Area:	6 Hectares
Total area of shadehouses:	200 Metres
Arboretum:	Yes
Arboretum Size:	3
Computer Plant Record System:	Yes
Disabled access:	No
Friends society:	Yes
Micropropagation/ Tissue Culture Facilities:	No
Number of Visitors:	5000
Number of Volunteers:	43
Open to public:	Yes
Published Plant Catalogue:	No
Seed Bank:	No
ABS Policy:	No
Invasive Species Monitoring:	Yes
Invasive Species Policy:	No
Plant Collection Policy:	No
Special Collections:	NoneIn process
Reintroduction Programme:	Yes
Courses for General Public:	Yes
Courses for School Children:	Yes
Courses for University/College Students:	Yes
Education Booklets/Leaflets:	Yes
Education Signs in Garden:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Permanent Public Displays:	Yes
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes
Special Exhibitions:	Yes
Visitor/Education Centre:	Yes