ID:	4181
Name:	Coimbatore Zoological Park Society 
Administration Staff Number:	1
Curator's Name:	Mr. B. Rathinasabapathy
Director's Name:	G. Rangaswamy
Educational Staff Number:	1
Horticultural Staff Number:	
Info:	  India - Tamil Nadu - Coimbatore  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: CZPS; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: No; About the Coimbatore Zoological Park Society The Coimbatore Zoological Park & Conservation Centre (CZPCC) is located at Anaikatty, 30 km west of Coimbatore, occupying an area of 100 hectares in the foothills of the Nilgiri Biosphere Reserve (NBR), which is a unique and threatened ecosystem in Western Ghats of India. The NBR, is the first of the fourteen biosphere reserves of India. It provides habitat for about 110 strict endemics of plants. The CZPCC would be a replica of the NBR, focusing on its flora and fauna. Ever since inception, it has been involved in various conservation related activities and has attracted many nature lovers and students. An initiative towards this was the conduct of a Botanic Education workshop in collaboration with Zoo Outreach Organization and BGCI in 1995. The aim of this workshop was to bring together zoos, botanic gardens, forest department, research institutions and NGOs, to work towards plant diversity. In recognition of CZPCC work, the BGCI/NBRI awarded a grant under Investing in Nature-India to establish an Arboretum for endemic and endangered plants of the NBR and to promote conservation education. We routinely organize environment related educational programmes like nature camps, trekking, plants identification, quiz competitions etc., for school and college students. Apart form this, CZPCC has also conducted thematic programmes for teachers to promote biodiversity conservation. So far, about 5000 people have been trained on various issues of plant conservation. We at CZPCC truly believe that in the coming years, the organization would grow from strength to strength and will have a great impact on the nature lovers, students, researchers and the general public.;  Main Address:; Coimbatore Zoological Park Society; Pioneer House; Peelamedu; Coimbatore; Tamil Nadu 641 004 India; ;  Telephone: 91 422 2572222; Fax: ; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.nilgiribiopark.com">www.nilgiribiopark.com; Primary Email: nbrpark@gmail.com ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	
Research Staff Number:	1
Altitude:	650.00 Metres
Annual Rainfall:	800 mm
Date founded:	1986
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Landscaped Area:	Yes
Latitude:	11.1000
Local Address:	1388, Pioneer House, Peelamedu Coimbatore 641 004, Tamil Nadu, India
Locality:	Information
Longitude:	76.7500
Natural Vegetation Area:	Yes
Satellite Garden Names:	Nilgiri Biosphere Nature Park
Total Area:	100 Hectares
Arboretum:	Yes
Arboretum Size:	2
Computer Plant Record System:	Yes
Disabled access:	No
Friends society:	Yes
Herbarium:	Yes
Micropropagation/ Tissue Culture Facilities:	No
Number of Visitors:	4000
Number of Volunteers:	10
Open to public:	Yes
Published Plant Catalogue:	Yes
Seed Bank:	Yes
Accession Number:	600
Cultivation Taxa Num:	110
Conservation Programme:	Yes
Ex Situ Conservation Programme:	Yes
Medicinal Plant Programme:	Yes
Reintroduction Programme:	No
Agriculture:	Yes
Biotechnology:	No
Conservation - Biology:	Yes
Conservation - Genetics:	Yes
Data Management Systems and Information Technology:	Yes
Ecology:	Yes
Ecosystem Conservation:	Yes
Education:	Yes
Ethnobotany:	Yes
Exploration:	Yes
Floristics:	Yes
Horticulture:	Yes
Invasive Species Biology and Control:	Yes
Land Restoration:	Yes
Molecular Genetics:	No
Pharmacology:	No
Plant Breeding:	Yes
Pollination Biology:	No
Restoration Ecology:	No
Seed/Spore Biology:	Yes
Sustainability:	Yes
Systematics and Taxonomy:	Yes
Urban Environments:	Yes
Courses for General Public:	No
Courses for School Children:	Yes
Courses for University/College Students:	Yes
Education Booklets/Leaflets:	Yes
Education Programme:	Yes
Education Signs in Garden:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Permanent Public Displays:	Yes
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes
Special Exhibitions:	Yes
Visitor/Education Centre:	Yes