ID:	4332
Name:	The Fanshawe College Botanical Gardens 
Fax:	(519) 452-4226
Info:	  Canada - Ontario - London  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: GFCCA; International Agenda Registration: Yes; BGCI Member: Yes; 
Primary Email:	mpascoe@fanshawec.ca
Telephone:	(519) 452-4430 x 4323
Administration Staff Number:	1
Curator's Name:	
Director's Name:	Michael Pascoe, Coordinator and Professor
Educational Staff Number:	15
Horticultural Staff Number:	10
Plant Records Officer's Name:	
Research Staff Number:	2
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Date founded:	1998
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Landscaped Area:	Yes
Latitude:	43.01321
Local Address:	28443 Centre Road
Locality:	Information
Longitude:	-81.1995
Natural Vegetation Area:	Yes
Satellite Garden Names:	The Mac Cuddy Botanic Garden The Mac Cuddy Botanic Garden has evolved since the early 1950’s developing from a rural Ontario farm into the current estate commonly referred to as the Cuddy Gardens. A. M Cuddy made his fortune with Cuddy Farms which is the world’s largest producer of turkey poults and turkey hatching eggs
Total Area:	27 Hectares
Total area of glasshouses:	200 Metres
Total area of shadehouses:	50 Metres
they are given one chance with the only supplemental supports being water and mulch. The gardens are planted with over 2,000 different species of plants and maintain associations with botanical gardens throughout the USA and Canada:	on March 24th 2009, the gardens became part of Botanic Gardens Conservation International and thus officially became a botanical garden. In May some one hundred thousand bulbs bloom throughout the garden, with over thirty thousand narcissus of some thirty different species and cultivars flowering in the woodland garden. Additionally the garden is home to several rare and endangered plants such as the Yellow Trillium (Trillium luteum), the Cucumber Magnolia (Magnolia acuminata) and the Ben Franklin Tree (Franklinia alatamaha), the most northerly grown Franklinia. The Dry Garden This garden is now 19 years old and features plants that thrive in a dry climate and utilizes foliage as opposed to blooms. The gravel paths simulate a Mediterranean feel and are actually planted with minor bulbs such as Netted Iris (Iris reticulata) and self-sown perennials and biennials. Masses or ornamental grass are the late summer highlights that carry the garden through the winter season, four Chanticleer Pear anchors each of the four beds, the first two being shorter in length to give the illusion that they are the same size when viewed from a distance. This particular garden won a Perennial Plant Association award for perennial design in 1995. The Prairie Garden This garden delineates the transition between the formal lawn areas of the property and the gardens themselves. Spectacular in late autumn through winter into early spring this garden’s dominant feature is masses of late season perennial such as Rudbeckia and Echinacea species combines with a variety of ornamental grasses. The Woodland Garden This garden recently underwent an expansion with the Primrose Walk (the path on the east side) added in 2001-2. In early spring the garden is ablaze with Daffodils, Siberian Squill (Scilla siberica) and other exotic and rare minor bulbs. Rhododendrons, Redbuds (Cercis canadensis), a Whit bud (Cercis canadensis ‘Alba’) and Goats beard (Fothergilla monticola) comprise the mid canopy while the upper canopy is a mixture of River Birch (Betula nigra), Tulip Poplar (Liriodendron tulipifera), Shingle Oak (Quercus acutissima) and Blue Ash (Fraxinus quadrangulata). The late spring and summer display features numerous varieties of Trillium, ferns, Corydalis, Butterbur and Hosta. The humus layer in this garden, of primary importance to the plant species being grown is enriched every year by the addition of leaves collected from all the formal lawn areas of the garden. The Rock Garden Although not an authentic rock garden this area contains many alpine and sub-alpine species grown under a sand/gravel base. Home to native cactus (Opuntia sp.) these gems produce delicate tissue like flowers of yellow and shocking pink in summer. Spring highlights include various Fritillaria species and a collection of dwarf conifers, of note is the Silberlocke Fir. The Perennial Border A very traditional aspect of the garden this border is original to the garden in placement since 1980. It however has undergone extensive renovation with the addition of new perennials and bulbs. Of particular note in May is the Ornamental Rhubarb (Rheum palmatum), alliums are a dominant summer bulb, while late season interest is maintained through the use of goldenrod (Solidago sp.) and Asters. The Rose Garden This is the newest addition to the Cuddy Garden and features over eighty hybrid tea roses selected for their disease resistance, vigour and bloom. At the north end of this garden is a collection of shrub roses such as Rosa moyesii ‘Geranium’ planted amongst a selection of unique shrubs such as Viburnum ‘Summer Snowflake’. A shrub border to the east side of the garden was planted in the summer of 2002. The Patio Garden One of the most relaxing places in the garden, the arbour is enveloped in large panicles of white wisteria bloom in late May
Arboretum:	Yes
Arboretum Size:	3
Computer Plant Record System:	Yes
Disabled access:	Yes
Friends society:	No
Herbarium:	No
Micropropagation/ Tissue Culture Facilities:	No
Number of Visitors:	15000
Open to public:	Yes
Published Plant Catalogue:	No
Seed Bank:	No
Accession Number:	4500
Invasive Species Monitoring:	Yes
Invasive Species Policy:	Yes
Plant Collection Policy:	Yes
Special Collections:	Emphasis on Carolinian plants but also an extensive collection of exotics with emphasis on Asia.
Conservation Programme:	Yes
Ex Situ Conservation Programme:	No
Medicinal Plant Programme:	No
Reintroduction Programme:	No
Agriculture:	No
Biotechnology:	No
Conservation - Biology:	Yes
Conservation - Genetics:	Yes
Data Management Systems and Information Technology:	Yes
Ecology:	Yes
Ecosystem Conservation:	No
Education:	Yes
Ethnobotany:	No
Exploration:	No
Floristics:	No
Horticulture:	Yes
Invasive Species Biology and Control:	Yes
Land Restoration:	No
Molecular Genetics:	No
Pharmacology:	No
Plant Breeding:	Yes
Pollination Biology:	No
Restoration Ecology:	Yes
Seed/Spore Biology:	No
Sustainability:	Yes
Systematics and Taxonomy:	Yes
Urban Environments:	Yes
Courses for General Public:	Yes
Courses for School Children:	Yes
Courses for University/College Students:	No
Education Booklets/Leaflets:	Yes
Education Programme:	Yes
Education Signs in Garden:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Permanent Public Displays:	Yes
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes
Special Exhibitions:	No
Visitor/Education Centre:	No