ID:	4359
Name:	The Palomar College Gardens 
Administration Staff Number:	1
Curator's Name:	Antonio Rangel, President
Director's Name:	Antonio Rangel
Educational Staff Number:	1
Horticultural Staff Number:	7
Info:	  United States of America - California - San Marcos  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: ; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: Yes; <a href="http://www.arbnet.org" target="_blank">ArbNet Accredited: Level II ; About the The Palomar College Gardens Palomar Community College District is located in North San Diego County, California. Palomar is one of the largest community colleges in the country, in both geographical area and student population. The student population is over 30,000, throughout the district. The main campus is located in San Marcos on a 252 acre site. In 1973, a 5 acre hillside on the main campus was set aside for an arboretum. Soon thereafter, many trees, palms and bamboos from around the world were planted and labeled, making the arboretum not only an area for the study of Photography, art, communications and physical education students have used the arboretum for class field trips and projects.In 2012 the Palomar Cactus and Succulent Society donated the its collection of more than 3500 speciemens to the campus. This garden is now considered the south pert of the arboretum collection. ; ; Today the Arboretum consist of nearly 10 acres and is considered one of the many gardens at Palomar College. The Friends of the Palomar College Arboretum Committee meets once a month. Usually the second Wednesday of the month at 5:30 pm in room RS-5 on the main San Marcos campus.;  Main Address:; The Palomar College Gardens; 1140 West Mission Road; San Marcos; California 92069-1415 United States of America; ;  Telephone: (760) 744-1150 ext. 2133; Fax: ; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.palomar.edu/arboretum">www.palomar.edu/arboretum; Primary Email: arangel@palomar.edu ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	
Research Staff Number:	1
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Date founded:	1973
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Landscaped Area:	Yes
Latitude:	33.1473120
Longitude:	-117.1852930
Natural Vegetation Area:	Yes
Arboretum:	Yes
Computer Plant Record System:	Yes
Disabled access:	No
Friends society:	Yes
Micropropagation/ Tissue Culture Facilities:	No
Number of Visitors:	9125
Number of Volunteers:	2
Open to public:	Yes
Published Plant Catalogue:	Yes
Seed Bank:	Yes
Invasive Species Monitoring:	Yes
Invasive Species Policy:	Yes
Plant Collection Policy:	Yes
Ex Situ Conservation Programme:	Yes
Medicinal Plant Programme:	Yes
Conservation - Biology:	Yes
Data Management Systems and Information Technology:	Yes
Education:	Yes
Ethnobotany:	Yes
Horticulture:	Yes
Plant Breeding:	Yes
Systematics and Taxonomy:	Yes
Education Signs in Garden:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes