ID:	4560
Name:	Catalogue of Medicinal Plants of Ukrainian Botanic Gardens and Parks 
Curator's Name:	
Director's Name:	Andrey Lebeda, Editor
Info:	  Ukraine - Kiev oblast - Kiev  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: ; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: No; About the Catalogue of Medicinal Plants of Ukrainian Botanic Gardens and Parks Catalogue of Medicinal Plants at the Botanic Gardens and Arboreta in Ukraine / Ed. A.P. Lebeda. – Kyiv: Akademperiodika. – 2009. – 160 pages. (in Ukrainian); ; The Catalogue of Medicinal Plants is a compilation of data on living collections of medicinal plants in 42 botanic gardens and arboreta in Ukraine.; ; This Catalogue is the first attempt in Ukraine to compile and publish the inventory of medicinal plants introduced and studied by Ukrainian scientists working with living collections in botanic gardens.; ; The Catalogue contains 1990 plant names. Latin (scientific) and common (vernacular) names, family names, and synonyms are presented, along with the codes (numbers) of the institutions holding living collections of specific taxa. For convenience of users of the catalog, there is an index of 1725 synonyms.; ; This Catalogue will be useful for botanists, professors, students, and other specialists interested in studying the use and conservation of medicinal plants.; ; In general, we consider the Catalogue to be an interim step towards the creation of an electronic information retrieval system that is much more mobile than printed material, and would allow easier changes and additions to the database on medicinal plant collections of botanical gardens and arboreta of Ukraine.; ; Idea – N.I. Dzhurenko, A.P. Lebeda, S.U. Ledenov; ; Scientific consultants:; N.V. Zaimenko, Doctor of Biological Sciences; A.U. Konovalova, Doctor of Pharmacy; M.V. Shevera, PhD; ; Published by the decision of the Academic Council of the M.M. Gryshko National Botanical Garden, National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine.;  Main Address:; Catalogue of Medicinal Plants of Ukrainian Botanic Gardens and Parks; M.M.Gryshko National Botanical Garden of National Academy of Sciences of Ukraine; Timiryazevska Street,1; Kiev; Kiev oblast 01014 Ukraine; ;  Telephone: +38 044 285 4105; Fax: +38 044 285 2649; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.nbg.kiev.ua">www.nbg.kiev.ua; Primary Email: nbg-medica@rambler.ru ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Institution Type:	Network
Latitude:	50.41058
Longitude:	30.55887