ID:	4829
Name:	Leith Hill 
Curator's Name:	
Director's Name:	Sam Bayley
Info:	  United Kingdom - Surrey - Holmbury St Mary  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: ; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: No; About the Leith Hill The highest point in the south-east of England, this hill is covered by woodland on its slopes, heathland on Coldharbour Common and Dukes Warren and parkland on the slopes below Leith Hill Place. Many of the woodlands have been replanted, but there are still interesting semi-natural oak, hazel and alder woods, and some actively worked hazel coppice. The prospect house Leith Hill Tower, built in 1765, dominates the hilltop, and commands magnificent views across the North Downs and London to the north and the South Downs and English Channel to the south. On the southern slopes of the hill is the Rhododendron Wood, a mass of colour in spring and early summer. Many of the woodlands contain plants which indicate their antiquity, particularly parts of Mosses Wood and Frank's Wood. The oak and hazel conceal a ground flora of typical woodland herbs such as yellow archangel, wood spurge and sweet woodruff. The elusive white admiral butterfly can be seen. In spring, both Mosses and Frank's Woods have a spectacular display of bluebells. Woodland birds include nuthatch, treecreeper and nightingale, and the open heathland is home to tree pipits, woodlarks, nightjars and reptiles such as the common lizard and adder. Henman Bunkhouse - provides accommodation for a variety of conservation, recreational and corporate groups. For many people it is a very positive and inspirational first experience of the National Trust.;  Main Address:; Leith Hill; Leith Hill Place Estate Yard; Leith Hill Lane; Holmbury St Mary; Surrey RH5 6LY United Kingdom; ;  Telephone: 01306 712711; Fax: ; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.nationaltrust.org.uk/leith-hill/">http://www.nationaltrust.org.uk/leith-hill/; Primary Email: leithhill@nationaltrust.org.uk ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	Alison Crook - Plant Collections Curator
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Date founded:	1850
Institution Type:	Other
Latitude:	51.171957
Longitude:	-0.383886
Arboretum:	Yes
Open to public:	Yes