ID:	4890
Name:	Gaziantep Botanic Garden 
Administration Staff Number:	1
Curator's Name:	PELİN OKKIRAN, Msc. Biologist
Director's Name:	DR. BANU GOKCEK
Educational Staff Number:	3
Horticultural Staff Number:	3
Info:	  Turkey - Türkiye - Gaziantep  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: ; International Agenda Registration: Yes; BGCI Member: Yes; About the Gaziantep Botanic Garden Gaziantep Botanical Garden has been established in 2009.; ; Our aim is to create a living and preserved collection of plants found in the flora of Gaziantep, Turkey and the World; to draw a geneological map of these plants and to introduce the plants to our visitors, the best way possible. To create a collection of endangered plants in our country and to encourage others to do so is among our objectives. The plants in our botanical garden, have been labeled in Latin and Turkish according to the family, species, genus, variety, and place of origin. You can also observe the seasonal changes of plants. To gradually become an information and consultation center about plants, to stimulate a different approach in training and education, and to position ourselves, in due time, on a leading place in this field. We want to protect the endemic, rare and endangered plants of Turkey, and revitalize the flora; we want to form a living collection of Turkey’s geophytes, medicinal and aromatic plants, caring for their reproduction and promotion.; ; We are currently providing training for primary and secondary school and higher education students in order to introduce them to the world of plants. We provide the schools with necessary materials needed for education. The Botanical Garden is the best place to introduce your children to the world of plants. Please, let yourself be a guide for your children, so that they acquire knowledge about the plants, discover the biodiversity and build up an environmental awareness. Higher education students exploit Botanic garden with training course and workshops. Also adults are advised about plants with gardening course.; There is an administrative building which is 200 m2 areas. We have a herbarium of approximately 1000 dried plants.;  Main Address:; Gaziantep Botanic Garden; Gazi Mahallesi Zübeyde Hanim Bulvari; Şehitkamil; Gaziantep; Türkiye 27060 Turkey; ;  Telephone: (0 342) 338 82 82; Fax: 338 82 82; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://gaziantepbotanik.com/">http://gaziantepbotanik.com/; Primary Email: banugokcek@mynet.com ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	PELİN OKKIRAN, Msc. Biologist
Research Staff Number:	2
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Date founded:	2009
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Latitude:	37.06455
Local Address:	Gazi Mahallesi Zübeyde Hanım Bulvarı Şehitkamil/Gaziantep
Locality:	Information
Longitude:	37.34963
Total Area:	2 Hectares
Arboretum:	Yes
Computer Plant Record System:	Yes
Herbarium:	Yes
Number of Visitors:	1
Open to public:	Yes
Seed Bank:	Yes
Cultivation Taxa Num:	1000
Special Collections:	In the garden there are approximately 1000 plant taxa and thousands of plants. There are 11 designed gardens. These are Three Dimensional Garden, Aquatic Plants Garden, Rose garden, Rock garden, the Ottoman's Garden, Colour and Fragrance Garden, Medical and Endemic Plants Garden, Gymnosperm Garden, Zen Garden, Japanese Garden and Ecological classroom.
Ex Situ Conservation Programme:	Yes
Reintroduction Programme:	Yes
Agriculture:	Yes
Conservation - Biology:	Yes
Education:	Yes
Exploration:	Yes
Horticulture:	Yes
Land Restoration:	No
Plant Breeding:	Yes
Sustainability:	Yes
Systematics and Taxonomy:	Yes
Courses for General Public:	Yes
Courses for School Children:	Yes
Courses for University/College Students:	Yes
Education Programme:	Yes
Education Signs in Garden:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes
Special Exhibitions:	Yes