ID:	5166
Name:	Kulob Botanic Garden 
Curator's Name:	Mariyo Boboev
Director's Name:	Tillo Boboev
Info:	  Tajikistan - Khatlon - Kulob  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: ; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: Yes; About the Kulob Botanic Garden The Kulob Botanic Garden was established in 1985 by joint initiative of the Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Tajikistan and Local Government of Kulob town. The Garden is situated in north-east part of Kulob town, in 630-647 m above sea level. The total area of the Garden is 16 ha. ; The Kulob Botanic Garden is the first scientific – academic institute in South Tajikistan and its main scientific-research objectives similar to other botanic gardens is to find different ways of acclimatization of trees, shrubs, flowers, medicinal and edible plants.; The major issues from the first days of the garden establishment addressed by the specialists of the garden were: ; ; • Find, deliver and sow the plants’ seeds from different regions in the garden and study their bio-ecological features, as well as their acclimatization in new environment. ; • Conduct a thorough study of bio-ecological features of the collected flora varieties.; • Plant the collected plants in geographic areas of the garden in an identified order.; • Protect the local endangered and disappearing flora and multiplication of their number in the natural condition.; • Study methods of domestication of wild herbs such as: cumin, currant, barberry, ziziphora etc.; ; So far, more than 2450 species and forms of trees, shrubs and flowers have been collected and tested which are relate to 49 families and 137 genus. The garden employees set a goal to be engaged in study and cultivation of rare and endangered plant species. The main aim of the study is to assess the current state of the rare and endangered plant species in the natural habitat and their bio-ecological features. Besides, specialists intend to collect their seeds from the nature and multiply their number in the Kulob Botanic Garden condition. ; Recent years, the botanic garden employees managed to study few areas of South Tajikistan and collect the seeds of the local plants. At present, there are more than 200 species of plants collected, out of which 42 species are registered in the “Red Book of Tajikistan” and “Red Book of Central Asia”. All this work is done with the purpose of multiplication of the number of rare and endangered plant species and to return these plant species back in their natural condition in order to keep the balance in the nature.; The Kulob Botanic Garden also serves as a scientific research center for professors and students from Biology and Geography Faculties of the Kulob State University, branch of the Technological University of Tajikistan and Medical and Pedagogical Colleges. In the Kulob Botanic Garden the students have an excellent chance to learn about the domestic and foreign flora, directly observe and be involved in the bio-ecological scientific research, discover the acclimatization features of flora and based on their observations write papers, scientific articles and course work.;  Main Address:; Kulob Botanic Garden; 1, Gulbogh Settlement; Kulob; Khatlon 735360 Tajikistan; ;  Telephone: (992) 918 89 84 10; Fax: ; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://">; Primary Email: kulob_garden@mail.ru ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	
Altitude:	640.00 Metres
Date founded:	1985
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Latitude:	37.9274
Local Address:	маҳаллаи Гулбоғ 1, шаҳри Кӯлоб
Locality:	Information
Longitude:	69.8002
Special Collections:	Plants of Central Asia, Eastern Asia, Europe, Crimea, Caucasus, North America, Native flora, subtropical plants. Allium, Eremurus, Fritillaria, Tulipa, Anemone, Iris, Amygdalus, Malus, Pyrus, Lonicera, Berberis, Crataegus, Rosa.
Conservation Programme:	Yes
Courses for University/College Students:	Yes
Education Booklets/Leaflets:	Yes
Public Lectures/Talks:	Yes
Special Exhibitions:	Yes