ID:	669
Name:	Herrick Conservatory and Kent State University Campus 
Curator's Name:	Christopher Rizzo, Horticultural Facilities Director
Director's Name:	Dr. James Blank, Professor and Chair, Department of Biological Sciences
Info:	  United States of America - Ohio - Kent  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: KE; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: No; About the Herrick Conservatory and Kent State University Campus The Department of Biological Sciences Herrick Conservatory supports teaching and research in the department, and provides a showplace of botanical diversity for the university at large. The conservatory is named for emeritus faculty members Dr. J. Arthur and Margaret Herrick because of their long-standing support for the department.; ; The facility is divided into several rooms that provide specialized growth conditions. In addition to two large sunken areas that house tree-sized individuals, there are rooms for cacti and succulents, ferns and other humidity loving plants, carnivorous plants, and general tropical collections. In addition to these permanent collections, the conservatory houses research collections for Dr. Shirley Graham (Lythraceae) for use in her studies of the systematics of this group. Space is also available for other faculty members and for student research projects. The permanent collections are utilized for various courses in the department, especially BSCI 40275, Systematic Botany.; ; The collections manager is Mr. Chris Rizzo (672-2469). The Conservatory is attached to the north side of Cunningham Hall and is open weekdays from 9-5, and members of the university community are invited to visit.;  Main Address:; Herrick Conservatory and Kent State University Campus; Department of Biological Sciences; Kent; Ohio 44242 United States of America; ;  Telephone: (330) 672-2469; Fax: (330) 672-3713; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.kent.edu/CAS/Biology/resources/conservatory.cfm">www.kent.edu/CAS/Biology/resources/conservatory.cfm; Primary Email: crizzo@kent.edu ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Date founded:	1978
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Latitude:	41.1462090
Longitude:	-81.3411620
Herbarium:	Yes
Special Collections:	No information available.