ID:	797
Name:	Pruhonice Botanic Garden 
Administration Staff Number:	
Curator's Name:	Ing. Zuzana Caspers (Iris collection), Ing. Marketa Machackova (Hemerocallis collection), Mgr. Petra
Director's Name:	RNDr. Pavel Sekerka
Educational Staff Number:	
Horticultural Staff Number:	5
Info:	  Czech Republic - Průhonice  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: PRUHO; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: Yes; <a href="http://www.arbnet.org" target="_blank">ArbNet Accredited: Level III ; About the Pruhonice Botanic Garden Pruhonice Botanical Garden; ; The Institute of Botany is involved in research on taxonomy, biosystematics and evolution of plants and selected groups of fungi, ecology, ecophysiology, phytogeography, vegetation mapping, dendrochronology and palaeoecology, and karyology and population genetics studies, both nationally and internationally. The Institute carries on three departments suitable as botanic garden or park: the Pruhonice Park, the Pruhonice Botanic Garden and the Collection of aquatic and wetland plants in Trebon.; ; https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S4BAipdQCqs; ; Pruhonice Botanical Garden was founded in 1963. Original program followed horticultural and botanical tradition in Pruhonice. There have been collected great collections of irises, roses, peonies, daylilies and rhododendrons in the garden during its existence. The aim is to gather gene – pool collections; preserve them and present original botanical species as well as their variability to the public, and to show the progress of breeding since Middle Age to the latest trends in breeding. The collections are thoroughly systematic and chronologically organized. Ancient and historic irises are unique and they were found in the nature or in historic gardens. The collection of historic irises in the Botanical garden of Pruhonice is one of the largest in the world. The most significant part of Iris collection are ancient varieties of Iris germanica and Iris pallida x variegata. The collection of irises has been involved in the national program in 2006, peonies and daylilies in 2015. All National collection data are accessible in Grin Global database. ; ; The garden maintain also arboretum of old local fruit trees, several dendrological expositions and water - plants - displays. The rose garden is the largest in the Czech regarding to number of taxons and cultivars. ; ; The Pruhonice Park and the garden are within the same premises and one admission fee. Access to the garden is from park.;  Main Address:; Pruhonice Botanic Garden; Institute of Botany, Czech Academy of Sciences; Zámek 1; Průhonice; 252 43 Czech Republic; ;  Telephone: 00420/267 015 713; Fax: 00420/267 015 713; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.ibotky.cz">www.ibotky.cz; Primary Email: botgarden@ibot.cas.cz ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	RNDr. Pavel Sekerka
Research Staff Number:	4
Altitude:	325.00 Metres
Date founded:	1963
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Landscaped Area:	Yes
Latitude:	49.9942349
Longitude:	14.5635478
Natural Vegetation Area:	No
Total Area:	1 Hectares
Arboretum:	Yes
Computer Plant Record System:	Yes
Disabled access:	No
Friends society:	No
Herbarium:	No
Micropropagation/ Tissue Culture Facilities:	No
Open to public:	Yes
Published Plant Catalogue:	No
Seed Bank:	No
ABS Policy:	Yes
Cultivation Taxa Num:	7000
Invasive Species Monitoring:	No
Invasive Species Policy:	No
Plant Collection Policy:	Yes
Conservation Programme:	Yes
Ex Situ Conservation Programme:	No
Medicinal Plant Programme:	No
Reintroduction Programme:	No
Education:	No
Horticulture:	Yes
Plant Breeding:	Yes
Courses for University/College Students:	Yes