ID:	903
Name:	Hakgala Botanic Gardens 
Curator's Name:	Mr. M. M. D. J. Senarathne, Curator of HBG
Director's Name:	Dr. D.S.A. Wijesundara, Director General
Info:	  Sri Lanka - Hakgala  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: HAKGL; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: Yes; About the Hakgala Botanic Gardens The second largest botanical garden in Sri Lanka, Hakgala Botanical Gardens is picturesquely situated in the hill country, a mere ten kilometres (six miles) away from the city of Nuwara Eliya. The comfortable cool weather that prevails throughout the year compliments the exotic flora and fauna, creating a true paradise.; ; According to the legends, the history of Hakgala Gardens dates back to the time of Ramayanaya; an epic love story of the east. Queen Sita, captured and brought to Sri Lanka, is said to have been hidden in this vicinity - the Hakgala Gardens at that time was one of the pleasure gardens of King Ravana.; ; The present day Hakgala Gardens was established in 1861 under the patronage of Dr G H W Thawaites. Originally it was used for the cultivation of cinchona and later for tea. The development of Hakgala Gardens as a botanic garden was initiated by Mr William Nock and since then many varieties of flowers and trees, both local and foreign, have been introduced.; ; A network of small creeks, complete with wooden bridges, is seen throughout the garden, creating a magical atmosphere. The magnificent rose garden, conifers, cedars, cypresses, variety of pines and English oak are just a few examples of the diversity of plant life that is seen here.;  Main Address:; Hakgala Botanic Gardens; Hakgala; Sri Lanka; ;  Telephone: +94 52 2182; Fax: ; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://botanicgardens.gov.lk">http://botanicgardens.gov.lk; Primary Email: dirnbg@sltnet.lk ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	Mr. K.N. Yapa
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Latitude:	7.8730
Longitude:	80.7717
Special Collections:	Old tea trials, Eucalyptus, Camphor, Pinus, Melaleuca, Casuarina, Cupressus macrocarpa, Cinnamomum camphora, Syncarpia glomulifera, Rhodoleia championi, Michelia nilagirica, Rhododendron zeylandicum, Streptosolen jamesonii, Santolina chamaecyparissus. The