ID:	980
Name:	Botanical Garden of Pyatigorsk State Pharmaceutical Academy 
Curator's Name:	Fatima Serebryanaya, Curator
Director's Name:	S. V. Grigorenko, Director
Info:	  Russian Federation - Stavropolskij Krai - Pyatigorsk  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: PYAT; International Agenda Registration: Yes; BGCI Member: No; About the Botanical Garden of Pyatigorsk State Pharmaceutical Academy Botanical Garden was founded in 1946 for the cultivation of medicinal herbs, as well as rare and interesting foreign plants. Botanical garden of PSPA – one of the oldest centers of science in the North Caucasus. Since 1949 the botanical garden is base of research work of employees, post-graduate students and students of academy. For many long years the volume and structure of a collection of plants changed. It has been presented by the greatest specific variety to 60-70 years of last century. In creation of a collection of a garden took direct part: professor A.L.Shinkarenko, senior lecturer E.A.Kechetov, professor D.A.Muravieva, professor R.M.Seredin.Employees filled up a collection of kinds of a botanical garden at the expense of plants brought of expeditions across Caucasus, Transcaucasia, Altai, the Far East, Central Asia, an exchange of a landing and seed material with other botanical gardens. In 80th years of last century the collection has replenished with many kinds of overseas plants post-graduate students from Congo, Bangladesh, Vietnam. The botanical garden participates in the International programs on preservation of a specific variety of plants.;  Main Address:; Botanical Garden of Pyatigorsk State Pharmaceutical Academy; Ботанический сад Пятигорской государственной фармацевтической академии; Kirov Avenue 33; Pyatigorsk; Stavropolskij Krai 357532 Russian Federation; ;  Telephone: (8793) 324474; Fax: (8793) 329267; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.pgfa.ru/">http://www.pgfa.ru/; Primary Email: bgpspa@yandex.ru ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Date founded:	1946
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Latitude:	44.048625
Longitude:	42.979615
Total Area:	117 Hectares
Special Collections:	Plant Collection consist of medicinal plants (more than 200 species), dendrarium (80 species), regular site based on Engler system (110 species), the Greenhouse (more than 130 species).
Reintroduction Programme:	Yes
Data Management Systems and Information Technology:	Yes
Plant Breeding:	Yes
Seed/Spore Biology:	Yes
Courses for School Children:	Yes
Courses for University/College Students:	Yes
Guided Tours:	Yes
Permanent Public Displays:	Yes