ID:	995
Name:	Amy B.H. Greenwell Ethnobotanical Garden 
Curator's Name:	
Director's Name:	Peter Van Dyke, Manager
Info:	  United States of America - Hawaii - Captain Cook  ;Garden Information;  Institution Code: HAGB; International Agenda Registration: No; BGCI Member: No; About the Amy B.H. Greenwell Ethnobotanical Garden Amy B.H. Greenwell Ethnobotanical Garden supports Hawaiian cultural traditions of land use and plants and conserves the plant resources of traditional Hawaiian cultural activities.; ; The focus of this 15-acre botanical garden is Hawaiian ethnobotany, the study of Hawaiian people and their plants. The garden is named for kama‘āina botanist Amy Greenwell.; ; At the Garden, you will see over 200 species of plants that grew in the traditional farms and native forests of Kona before Captain Cook arrived in the late 18th century. There are endemic, indigenous, and Polynesian introduced plants. These include the most important plants in Hawaiian culture, such as taro and kukui, and scores of rare and endangered native species such as the beautiful koki‘o.; ; The Garden landscape reflects the biogeographical zones of a typical Kona ahupua‘a. There are four zones: coastal, dry forest, agricultural, and upland forest. The plants on the upper five acres of the Garden grow within an archaeological site.; ; In this site you will walk among the stonework features of the Kona Field System , a 50 square mile network of farms and gardens that dominated the landscape in the time before foreign contact.; ; Depending on the time of year you may be able to visit the Garden’s native insect house, featuring Kamehameha butterflies.; ; Most self-guided visitors spend a half-hour to an hour at the Garden. There are panels around a short looping trail at the center of the garden. Plants throughout the garden have labels that explore their traditional uses.;  Main Address:; Amy B.H. Greenwell Ethnobotanical Garden; Bishop Museum; P.O. Box 1053; Captain Cook; Hawaii 96704 United States of America; ;  Telephone: (808) 323-3318; Fax: (808) 323-2394; URL: <a target="_blank" href="http://www.bishopmuseum.org/exhibits/greenwell/greenwell.html">www.bishopmuseum.org/exhibits/greenwell/greenwell.html; Primary Email: agg@bishopmuseum.org ; 
Plant Records Officer's Name:	Peter Van Dyke
Altitude:	0.00 Metres
Date founded:	1975
Institution Type:	Botanic Garden
Latitude:	21.3334521
Longitude:	-157.8696385
Total Area:	6 Hectares
Number of Visitors:	10361
Open to public:	Yes
Cultivation Taxa Num:	200
Special Collections:	Hibiscus, Hawaiian bananas, taro, sugar cane.
Conservation Programme:	Yes